CHOOSE YOUR LOCATION: NORTH AMERICA EUROPE ASIA PACIFIC
PRODUCTS
BULK INGREDIENTS
RECIPES
ABOUT
BLOG
WHERE TO BUY
OUR STORY
Our Passion

Now approaching 40 years in business, Bruce and I have built our family enterprise around a shared passion for ginger. Recognized as “Best Product Line” by the National Association of the Specialty Food Trade, The Ginger People reflects the authentic, innovative and values-driven spirit that has guided us from the beginning.

Inspired by the healing powers of ginger, celebrated for over 5,000 years, we craft our products with simple, short ingredient lists in fun, functional formats designed for modern lifestyles and daily enjoyment.

We partner with small-scale farmers who share our deep respect for the land and sustainable farming practices. Many of these farms are located near our manufacturing facilities, helping us reduce our carbon footprint. We support more than 500 farmers, factory workers, and staff across the world’s premier ginger growing regions, including Australia, China, Fiji, Indonesia and Peru.

From health tonics to everyday cooking essentials, GIN GINS® ginger candy to dietary supplements, we offer something for everyone — free from artificial ingredients, with an ever-growing selection of organic options. And to bring even more goodness to the world, we’ve embraced turmeric, ginger’s celebrated cousin.

And now, a new chapter unfolds.

Our son, Evan, has been part of this business since his teenage years, when he first hefted 50-pound sacks of fresh ginger into the juicer to make our earliest batches of ginger juice. Nearly 25 years later, Evan — now our Chief Operating Officer — helps lead the business with the same spirit of integrity and entrepreneurial drive that started it all. Alongside his wife, Marla, and their young son Kin, the next generation is here, bringing fresh energy and a deep respect for our roots.

As we look ahead, The Ginger People remains a proudly independent family business — grounded in heritage, guided by values and always inspired by ginger.

– Abbie and Bruce Leeson, Founders, The Ginger People®

 

Mission Statement

At The Ginger People, our mission is to be the most trusted ginger brand in the world through quality, innovation, social responsibility, education and commitment. We are a family of people who seek to create and promote great-tasting, healthful ginger products.

By partnering with farmers and producers in the premier growing regions of the world, we support communities and create loyal relationships with those around us. We exist to share experiences where our passion for ginger and its purpose come together.

Meet Mr. Knobs

Hi! My name is Mr. Knobs, brand mascot here at The Ginger People. My job is to help share our story and tell you about the amazing benefits of ginger and why everyone should eat ginger every day.

I am energetic, good-natured and health-minded. I’m knowledgeable, honest and helpful, fun-loving and creative – sometimes a little cheeky, but always great company. I believe in taking care of the land and all the characters that walk on it. I believe in contributing to a healthier, happier and more flavorful world.

For each of our products, I get to release my alter egos and show off my many attributes. Although always true to my core virtues, I’m super versatile, too, and have nearly 100 personas!

 
BLOG
Ginger Sourcing. Why Not Hawaii?

Understanding the Realities of Commercial Production. When people think about the origin of ginger, Hawaii often comes to mind. With its lush climate and volcanic soil, it’s a place that seems ideal for growing tropical crops. But when it comes to commercial ginger production, Hawaii grows only a small amount of ginger compared to the rest of the world.

READ MORE
Boost Your GLP-1 Naturally: The Power of Ginger & Turmeric

If you’re on GLP-1 medications or looking for natural ways to support your body’s GLP-1 levels, you’re not alone. But did you know that two common cooking spices you likely have in your kitchen right now —ginger and turmeric—could play a role in this journey? Let’s explore how these powerful spices may help.

READ MORE
The Power of Ginger in Easing Cancer Treatment Side Effects

Most of the herbs and supplements you take to improve health suffer from a similar problem – they are poorly absorbed by the body. You can get your herbs and supplements to work more  effectively if you can improve how much and how quickly these valuable nutrients enter your body. The solution is spicy – it’s ginger!

READ MORE
LEARN MORE

Our Story
FAQ
Contact Us
Wholesale & Trade
Privacy Policy

YOUR #1 SOURCE

For ginger and turmeric products - made easy, healthy and delicious.

FOLLOW US
Join the Ginger Lovers Club

Sign up for our newsletter and get subscriber-only discounts, early access to new flavors and our latest recipes made especially for ginger lovers.

 