Choose Your Location: NORTH AMERICA EUROPE ASIA PACIFIC
Follow
Follow
Follow
Products
[ All Products ]
Candy
Tablets & Lozenges
Health Shots
Juices
Beverages
Pantry – Baking
Pantry – Cooking
Sauces
Bulk Ingredients
Recipes
About
Our Story
Organic and Non-GMO Standards
FAQ
Health Benefits
Ginger
Turmeric
Blog
Where to Buy
GIN GINS® Original Ginger Chews

by Ginger People | Feb 16, 2021

GIN GINS® GINGER CANDY
← NEXT
3oz-GG-Amazon-Original
GG_HeartLeaves-crop
GinGinsOriginalGingerChews_1_1000px
GinGinsOriginalGingerChews_3_1000px
GinGinsOriginalGingerChews_2_1000px
GinGins_Original_Group_web
Slide

GIN GINS® ORIGINAL GINGER CHEWS
(86 reviews)
Write a Review
Your overall rating 
Select a Rating
5 Stars
4 Stars
3 Stars
2 Stars
1 Star
Title of your review 
Your review 
Your name 
Your email 
This review is based on my own experience and is my genuine opinion.  ​
Submit Review

These tingly, chewy treats are an enjoyable alternative to anti-nausea medicine. Whether you’re treating a belly ache, a bout of nausea or simply indulging yourself, always have these classic, yummy ginger candies in your stash. 

Made with 10% fresh ginger – more than any other brand
Great for travel and nausea-related conditions
Non-GMO | Gluten Free | Vegan
America’s #1 selling ginger candy
Voted “Best Candy” by the Fiery Foods Association
Sweetened with cane sugar – nothing artificial
Sustainably farmed ginger – locally grown near the candy factory
Buy online or find it in the candy aisle at your local grocery or specialty store

Voted “Best Candy” by the 2024 Fiery Foods Association Scovie Awards

PRODUCT DETAILS
INGREDIENTS: Cane sugar, glucose syrup, ginger (10%), tapioca starch, rice flour, soy lecithin, salt, citric acid. CONTAINS: SOY. 
Allergy Advice: Made in a facility that also processes peanuts.
Made in Indonesia
Available in: 1.6 oz travel pack   |   3 oz bag   |   4.5 oz box   |   1 lb bag   |   11 lb box
Store in a cool, dry place
NUTRITIONAL INFO

MEET “THE ORIGINAL” MR. KNOBS
It’s hard work being the mascot for the world’s best-loved ginger brand. Tired of running from paparazzi only to rush to photoshoots and interviews, Mr. Knobs loves nothing more than relaxing with a soothing ginger treat…	
REVIEWS

Addictively Delicious
Blakely
04/11/2025

I first encountered these chews back in the day at Walmart. While I don’t remember why I decided to try them, I’m grateful I did, because these are absolutely delectable!Show more

As someone with multiple physical chronic illnesses (including arthritis and IBS) these have to be one of my favorite candies because they DON’T negatively impact my conditions. When I’m craving something sweet (which, as a baker, is often!) these are my go-to, because they satisfy my sweet tooth without causing me any intestinal or joint discomfort. When Walmart stopped carrying this, I was devastated, but thankfully they’re available at my local World Market. I have to be careful though — I can take down a 1lb bag in less than a week if I don’t watch myself!

These chews are sweet without being overly sugary in flavor (and ingredients!). For anyone who’s worried about them being too spicy, I’ve always considered myself a bit of a baby when it comes to spice (you won’t catch me eating buffalo sauce), so while they do give you a mouth tingling sensation, you won’t need milk or starch to put out the fire; even with 10% ginger, they aren’t overwhelmingly spicy. They’re wonderful for nausea, and as someone who loves to sing but has environmental allergies, they help open up my nasal passages as well.

I think my favorite thing about this product is the company behind it; I strive to support smaller businesses when possible, and the fact that these candies are produced using sustainable ingredients grown by farms local to the production factories makes them all the sweeter to me. I place high value in products that give back to the communities where they’re produced, so to know that the company does just that and more means a lot to me. I love sharing these candies with others, and I always keep some on me for anyone dealing with nausea (or just curious to try one!).

I’ll always recommend this brand and their products; even IF you can find cheaper (which, in my opinion, these are very affordable), you won’t find any with a better commitment to making the best responsibly made ginger candies anywhere in store. I absolutely LOVE these!!

Response from The Ginger People US

Thank you for your kind words, Blakely! We are so happy to hear how helpful (and delectable) our GIN GINS(r) Original Chews have been for you!Show more

We Love GIN GINS!
SG
12/10/2024

I wanted to take a moment to share how much GIN GINS have meant to my cousin. She has been battling multiple complex illnesses throughout her life. During her intense treatments recently, GIN GINS have been the most effective relief for her nausea. Thank you so much!Show more

THANK YOU!!!
Joe
11/19/2024

For the last 14 months, I have been plagued by severe intestinal discomfort and hypersensitivity. I have tried every form of diet modification, including cutting out, gluten, dairy, caffeine, sugar, etc. Nothing seemed to work. This is after several appointments with my primary physician and my gastroenterologist. Nobody could figure out what was going on by way of bloodwork or exams.Show more

I was given one of your GIN GINS chews by a coworker last week. I cannot even believe what I am experiencing since the moment it hit my mouth. I have had absolutely zero issues. I honestly thought that there was no hope left to cure me of this pesky problem.

I am so grateful to your company, and this product to put into words is impossible and my heart is full of gratitude to you. I will be a customer for life. Thank you for vastly changing my life and allowing me to resume a sense of normalcy that I’ve missed so much.

Easy to find
Angie
08/30/2024

These are the easiest to find – they’re popping up at more and more grocery stores all the time and I’m so happy about it!! Usually we grab them from Trader Joe’s. They’re so nicely wrapped in individual wrappers, so they’re easy to throw in a bag or purse for when you need them. They’re also just a tasty little snack!! Totally recommend. These are our fave!!Show more

Love These Things!
Jessei
08/22/2024

I love these candies. They have just the right amount of sweetness and fire. Not overly spicy and not overly sweet. They work great at the office when I’m craving something sweet and I keep some in my purse just in case I get an upset stomach after eating something I shouldn’t. Highly recommend keeping these on hand.Show more

Site Reviews navigation
Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 … Page 18 Next

BLOG
Ginger Sourcing. Why Not Hawaii?

Understanding the Realities of Commercial Production. When people think about the origin of ginger, Hawaii often comes to mind. With its lush climate and volcanic soil, it’s a place that seems ideal for growing tropical crops. But when it comes to commercial ginger production, Hawaii grows only a small amount of ginger compared to the rest of the world.

READ MORE
Boost Your GLP-1 Naturally: The Power of Ginger & Turmeric

If you’re on GLP-1 medications or looking for natural ways to support your body’s GLP-1 levels, you’re not alone. But did you know that two common cooking spices you likely have in your kitchen right now —ginger and turmeric—could play a role in this journey? Let’s explore how these powerful spices may help.

READ MORE
The Power of Ginger in Easing Cancer Treatment Side Effects

Most of the herbs and supplements you take to improve health suffer from a similar problem – they are poorly absorbed by the body. You can get your herbs and supplements to work more  effectively if you can improve how much and how quickly these valuable nutrients enter your body. The solution is spicy – it’s ginger!

READ MORE
LEARN MORE

Our Story
FAQ
Contact Us
Wholesale & Trade
Privacy Policy

YOUR #1 SOURCE

For ginger and turmeric products - made easy, healthy and delicious.

FOLLOW US
Follow
Follow
Follow
Join the Ginger Lovers Club

Sign up for our newsletter and get subscriber-only discounts, early access to new flavors and our latest recipes made especially for ginger lovers.